1. Log in to AWS Management Console
   Open a browser and go to AWS Management Console.
   Sign in with your credentials.
2. Navigate to EC2 Dashboard
   In the AWS Management Console, search for EC2 in the search bar.
   Click on EC2 under the "Services" section to open the EC2 dashboard.
3. Launch a New EC2 Instance (VM)
   In the EC2 dashboard, click on Launch Instance.
   Select an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) (e.g., Amazon Linux, Ubuntu).

(sreenshot-2.png)

   Choose an Instance Type (e.g., t2.micro for free tier).

(screenshot-3.png)
   Configure the instance details, such as VPC and subnet (you can leave defaults for basic setups).
   Add storage if necessary (by default, 8GB is sufficient).
   Configure security group settings:
   Add a rule for SSH (port 22) to allow access from your IP.
   add a rule for ALL ICMP-IPv4 to allow all ipv4 access from your ip

(screenshot-4.png)
 
  Add a rule for ICMP (ping) to allow testing with ping.
  Click Review and Launch.
4. Launch the Instance
  After reviewing your configuration, click Launch.
  You will be prompted to create or use an existing key pair for SSH access. Select or create a key pair and download it (this is crucial for SSH access).
  Click Launch Instance.
5. View the Instance Details
   Once the instance is launched, go to the Instances section under EC2.
   Locate your instance from the list.
   In the Description tab at the bottom, you will see the Public IPv4 address of your VM. This is the IP address you will use for SSH and ping tests.

(screenshot-5.png) and (screenshot-6.png )

6. Note the Public IP Address
   Write down or copy the Public IPv4 address, as this is the IP address you will need for further steps like pinging and SSH access.

   in this public ip address is : 3.88.186.47 (its refferd screenshot-1.png)

** next we have ping public ip of aws cloud instance **

Step 1: Ensure the EC2 Instance is Running
    Log in to your AWS Management Console.
    Navigate to EC2 Dashboard.
    Verify that the instance you want to ping is running and has a public IP assigned.
Step 2: Check Security Group Rules
    Go to the Security Group associated with your EC2 instance.
    Ensure that ICMP (ping) traffic is allowed in the inbound rules. The rule should look something like this:
    Type: ICMP
    Protocol: Echo Request
    Port Range: N/A (since it’s ICMP)
    Source: Anywhere (0.0.0.0/0) or your IP
    Save changes if any modifications are made.
Step 3: Find the Public IP of the EC2 Instance
    Go to the Instances section under EC2.
    Find your instance and note down its Public IPv4 Address.
Step 4: Ping the EC2 Instance from Kali Linux
    Open a terminal in Kali Linux.
    Use the ping command followed by the public IP of your EC2 instance
#ping <Public-IP>
    in this case we have a ip then we use it 
#(ping  3.88.186.47)
(screenshot-7)

**To log in to your AWS EC2 VM via SSH using Kali Linux, follow these steps:

  Prerequisites:
  Ensure the EC2 instance is running and has a public IP.
  Have the private key (.pem) file that was generated when you launched the EC2 instance.
  The Security Group associated with your EC2 instance must have port 22 (SSH) open to your IP address or to the public (0.0.0.0/0).
  Your Kali Linux must have internet access.
Step 1: Locate Your Private Key
  Ensure you have the .pem file that was provided when you launched the EC2 instance. This file is needed to authenticate your SSH connection.

Step 2: Check EC2 Public IP Address
  Go to your AWS Management Console.
  In the EC2 Dashboard, click on Instances and note down the Public IPv4 Address of your instance.

Replace /path/to/your-key.pem with the actual path to your .pem file.

Step 3: SSH into the EC2 Instance
  Now, use the SSH command to log in to your instance. The default username for an EC2 instance depends on the AMI (Amazon Machine Image) you used:

  For Amazon Linux 2 or Amazon Linux AMI: ec2-user
  For Ubuntu: ubuntu
  For CentOS: centos
  For Debian: admin or root
  In Kali Linux, open a terminal and use the following SSH command:

#(ssh -i /path/to/your-key.pem username@Public-IP)

(screenshot-8.png)

then Finally destroy/terminate the VM

to select  instence state -> Terminate(delete)instance


